.\"-*-nroff-*-
.\\
.\\ man page for the fits2nso program
.\\
.TH fits2nso 1 "November 1996"
.SH NAME
fits2nso \- convert FTS data files from FITS format to NSO type 6 format

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fits2nso [-f] [-h] [-r] <input files>

.SH DESCRIPTION
The NIST UV-vis-IR Fourier transform spectrometer and the FTS data
analysis program 
.B xgremlin
write data files in FITS (Flexible Image Transfer
System) format. 
.B fits2nso
converts data files in FITS format to NSO type 6 format so they can be
read by J. W. Brault's 
.B Gremlin
program. 
.B fits2nso 
creates a header (.hdr) and data (.dat) file pair and keeps the
original FITS file by default. The (.dat) file will not contain the
original FITS header section

.SH OPTIONS
.B -f :
the 
.B fringe division ratio
is stored in a real valued variable
.B fdr
in FITS files from the NIST FTS. In NSO type data files the fringe divsion
ratio is stored as the ratio 
.B M/K
of two integer variables 
.B M
and 
.B K.
By default, 
.B fits2nso
computes a pair of integer variables M and K with a ratio that very closely 
approximates the fringe division ratio. If the
.B -f
switch is used the variable
.B fdr
is stored in the header file instead of M and K. This is useful and may be a little bit more
accurate if the header / data
file pair is to be read with 
.B xgremlin
which can read the 
.B fdr
variable in NSO type 6 data files. 

.B -h :
creates a header file only which can be used together with the
existing FITS file. Note that the data file must have the extension .dat for
.B Gremlin.

.B -r :
renames the FITS file into a file with extension .dat so that it can be
used together with the header file. 

.SH EXAMPLES

.B fits2nso -r *.fits 

will convert all FITS data files in the current directory
in NSO type 6 header- and data file pairs. The original FITS
files will be deleted in the process.

.SH BUGS
Bug reports, complaints, suggestions etc.  should be directed to:

.CD
Gillian Nave, NIST ( gnave@nist.gov )
.DE
