.\"-*-nroff-*-
.\\
.\\ man page for the mergelin program
.\\
.TH mergelin 1 "October 1995"
.SH NAME
mergelin \- merge two or more Gremlin line list (.lin) files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mergelin -o <output file> <input files> [ -t xxx.x ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mergelin
is used to merge several Gremlin line list data files (with .lin extension)
into a single line list file. The program is especially useful to combine the 
output from several
.B linelist
commands in Gremlin.

.SH OPTIONS
.B -o :
actually not an option because it must be entered on the command line. 
It is followed by the name of the output file. 

.B -t xxx.x :
.B mergelin
reads the line list data from every input file and assembles the merged line
list in memory before writing it out to disk. If one of the input files
contains a line that is 
.B xxx.x
wavenumbers closer to one of the lines already in the merged list it will not be
transferred to the output line list because it is assumed that it is identical
to the line already in the list. 
.B The default threshold is 5mK (0.005/cm). 
The -t option may be used to change the threshold. If the threshold is set to 0
all lines will be included in the output line list.


.SH EXAMPLES

.B mergelin -o all.lin *.lin 

will merge all line list files in the current directory into a file
.B all.lin. Identical lines will appear only once in the output line
list.

.B mergelin -o all.lin a.lin b.lin -t 0.0
will merge all line list data from files
.B a.lin
and
.B b.lin
into a single output file
.B all.lin.
All lines will be included in the output file.

.SH BUGS
Bug reports should be sent to:

.CD
Gillian Nave, NIST ( gnave@nist.gov )
.DE
