.\"-*-nroff-*-
.\\
.\\ man page for the Xgremlin program
.\\
.TH Xgremlin 1 "June 1995"
.SH NAME
Xgremlin \- FTS spectrum analysis program.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xgremlin [-mono]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xgremlin
is used for the analysis of interferograms and spectra measured with Fourier 
transform spectrometers. Recent additions allow the analysis of spectra obtained 
with grating spectrographs. 
.B Xgremlin
is a port to the UNIX / X window environment of the FTS decomposition program
.B Gremlin
for PCs running MS\-DOG written by Jim Brault (NOAA). 
A comprehensive
manual
is distributed together with the source code of
.B Xgremlin.

.SH OPTIONS
The
.B mono
option may be useful if 
.B Xgremlin
is run on a monochrome display. With this option dashed lines are used for
imaginary data and the phase confidence interval to make them distinguishable
from other plotted data.
It is usually most convenient to start xgremlin as a background
process as follows:

.B xgremlin &

.SH FILES
.B Xgremlin
requires a number of data and configuration files which must be installed 
before the program can be used. When 
.B Xgremlin 
is started the program first reads and executes a system wide initialization file and 
then a user specific startup file. The system wide configuration file is:

.B /usr/local/xgremlin/xgremlin.conf

This file contains default settings that apply to all users on a particular system. 
Each user can configure 
.B Xgremlin 
individually by putting 
.B Xgremlin 
commands in a local startup file

.B \.xgremlinrc

which lives in the users' home directories. The data files for the help system are
all in HTML format and live in the directory

.B /usr/local/xgremlin/html

.B Xgremlin
is capable of rendering the content of its plotting window as a color Postscript
file. The Postscript file is written to the home directory and is given the 
name

.B xgremlin\-<number>.ps

where 
.B <number>
is the process id of the 
.B Xgremlin
program that creates the file (e.g. 
.B xgremelin-356.ps
).Once the Postscript file is written,
.B lpr
is started as a a background process and carries out the task of actually printing 
the 'screen dump'.
.B xgremlin_print
is a shell script that can be adapted easily to the local printer
setup. If a Postscript printer is available it will simply copy the screen dump
to the printer, otherwise it might e.g. call the Postscript interpreter 
.B Ghostscript
to print the screen dump on (almost) any printer. Every session of 
.B Xgremlin
creates a log file in the user'ss home directory. Session logs have file names
such as

.B xgremlin-12Jun95-22:30.log

where the time is the startup time of the program. Finally, 
.B Xgremlin 
creates a directory (by default

.B xgremlin-scratch

in the home directory) to keep scratch files for temporary data storage.

.SH X RESOURCES
Like most programs written for the X Window system 
.B Xgremlin
requires a database with application resources. 
All program specific
resource definitions are contained the application resource database
.B Xgremlin
(like the program itself but with uppercase X).
This file must be installed in the directory

.B /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The location of some files may be changed from the default 
directory
.B /usr/local/xgremlin
by setting the following environment variables:

.B XGREMLIN_CONF_PATH :
directory where the system wide configuration file is located

.B XGREMLIN_LOG_PATH :
location of the session log files

.B XGREMLIN_SCRATCH_PATH :
where the scratch file is created

.B XGREMLIN_PRINT_COMMAND :
by default
.B Xgremlin
uses the 'lpr -P' command for printing the screen dump Postscript files. 
The name of the printer following the -P option is filled in by 
.B Xgremlin
( may be set with 'printer' command ). If the machine 
.B Xgremlin 
is running on has a different print command (as is e.g. the
case with AIX) it can be set in this environment variable.

.SH KUDOS
.B Xgremlin
is based on the FTS analysis program
.B Gremlin
by Jim Brault and much of the code is taken verbatim from 
.B Gremlin.
The manual for 
.B Gremlin
and 
.B Xgremlin
was contributed by G. Nave, NIST and A. Thorne, Imperial College, London.

.SH BUGS
.B Xgremlin 
is probably rather similar to its predecessor
.B Gremlin
in that respect.
Bug reports should be sent to:

.CD
Gillian Nave, NIST ( gnave@nist.gov )
.DE
