.\"-*-nroff-*-
.\\
.\\ man page for the dumplin program
.\\
.TH dumplin 1 "January 1996"
.SH NAME
dumplin \- dump and analyze Gremlin line list files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dumplin <.lin files> [-tsh]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dumplin
may be used to display the header portion of a Gremlin line list (.lin) file,
to dump the data in a line list file in text format and to trim
trailing invalid line records from the line list file.

.SH OPTIONS
Without any command options the contents of the line list file will be
written to an ASCII file which gets the file extension .lin.lst 
The following options are available in 
.B dumplin:

.B -h :
print out the header section of a line list file (number of lines and 
data in the file).

.B -s :
write the line list in text format to 
.B stdout
and not to a file.

.B -t :
The actual size of a line list file increases whenever line records are
added to the file but as a consequence of the way line list files are
handled by
.B Xgremlin
it does not shrink when line records are removed. When many lines are
removed from a linelist (e.g. after a 
.B linelist
command with a small discriminator) many invalid line records can accumulate
at the end of a line list file. The -t option may be used to remove these
already deleted line records. Also, if line records are out of order in 
a line list file (for whatever reason) the -t option will return them to
ascending wavenumber order.

.SH EXAMPLES

.B dumplin -h *.lin

will display the header sections of all .lin files in the current directory.

.B dumplin mydata

will dump the line list data records in the file
.B mydata.lin
in ASCII. A file
.B mydata.lin.lst
will be created.

.SH BUGS
Bug reports should be sent to:

.CD
Gillian Nave, NIST ( gnave@nist.gov )
.DE
